---
layout: default
title: Build the project with Visual Studio
description:
---

<p class="intro">This guide will show you how to build the project on <strong>Windows</strong>. There are also guides for <strong><a href="{% raw %}{{ site.baseurl }}{% endraw %}/linux-build">Linux</a> and <a href="{% raw %}{{ site.baseurl }}{% endraw %}/mac-build">OSX</a></strong>. It is assumed that you have already <a href="{% raw %}{{ site.baseurl }}{% endraw %}/configure-cmake-redirect">configured with CMake</a>!</p>

## Build with Visual Studio ##

Open the *OGS.sln* either by double-clicking it in the file browser or opening in Visual Studio via *File / Open / Project*.

On the project explorer right-click on *ogs* or *ogs-gui* and choose *Set as startup project*. Then press *F5* or click the green arrow to build and start the project.

<div class="more-info">
  <h4 class="compressed">More about Visual Studio startup projects</h4>
  <div class="more-content">
    <p>
      The reason for this is that you can have only one sub-project of your Visual Studio Solution activated for debugging (e.g. by pressing *F5*). Per default this is the first sub-project (in the case of a CMake-generated project this is *ALL_BUILD*). This must be manually set to a sub-project which generates an executable (a library sub-project cannot be started). And because this setting is stored in user specific project file it cannot be set via CMake.
    </p>
  </div>
</div>

## How to work with CMake and Visual Studio ##

You can work normally in Visual Studio but remember that you have to make project changes in the *CMakeLists.txt* and not inside Visual Studio. So you can add a new source file within Visual Studios File menu but you have to add that file also to the CMake file. Every time you change a *CMakeLists.txt* and you build the project a new CMake run is automatically invoked. After that Visual Studio informs you that the project files were changed and it reloads them.

If you want to use another project configuration delete the contents of your Build-directory and run CMake again with the new configuration set to ON.

{% include next-steps-build.markdown %}
